TSUN TSOL-H5.0K-H Overview

Unless Otherwise stated, it = The Inverter.
It does not act on all messages. However:
It needs all messages from 421x to 428x to connect.
It expects a batttery which is 'on' by default. It sends no contactor commands.
If it ceases to receive CAN communications it will stop using the battery and display "BMS Lost" on its display*
Displayed voltage on inverter's screen is slightly out from measured battery voltage
Inverter displays a nice 60 second countdown when in process of changing modes.
When commencing battery operations or switching modes the inverter performs brief charging and discharging. If voltage drops below limits it will cancel preparations and begin the cycle again*


Categories:
Responsive
Mixed
No (no response)
Untested


Inverter transmitted messages:

0x4200 0
  Responsive
  sent every 2 seconds, response expected.
  If it gets no response but sees battery voltage it throws an error and will not use the battery
  We have always responded with the full 421x through 428x and this keeps the inverter happy

0x4200 2
  Untested
  We have never observed this message and so have never tried responding to it.

0x8200
  No
  We have observed the inverter requesting sleep and awake using this command. The inverter does not seem to care which state the battery reports
 
Battery transmitted messages:

421x
  Battery Pile Total Voltage: Mixed. 
  Battery Pile Current: No.
    We have only set this to 0 but the inverter will charge and discharge regardless
  Second level BMS Temperature: Untested
  SOC: Responsive. Will charge/discharge beyond these limits. Allows discharge if SOC is above upper limit. Allows slow charge if SOC is below lower limit
  SOH: No/Untested away from our actual of 60%. Inverter display shows 100% despite us transmitting 60%

422x
  Charge Cutoff Voltage: Responsive. Tapers charge current to observe this limit based on inverter's own internal measurement of battery voltage
  Discharge Cutoff Voltage: Mixed:
    Dependent on our reported value not the inverter's own internal measurement
    Single observation: If inverter's measured voltage is ~20V below this value it will stop discharge and then attempt to reconnect.*
  MAX Charge Current: Responsive. Stays within this limit based on its own internal measurements
  MAX Charge Discurrent: Responsive. Stays within this limit based on its own internal measurements

423x: Untested
  Dummy values used for all fields here. No testing performed to ascertain sensitivity

424x: Untested
  Dummy values used for all fields here. No testing performed to ascertain sensitivity

425x
  Basic Status No
    A message from the inverter asks for this to change. However regardless of this value the inverter does not change its behaviour. *Only tested for sleep and idle
  Cycle Period: Untested
  Error (This confusingly refers to the 'fault table'): No
  Alarm: Responsive
    High Voltage alarms cause the inverter to stop charging. The inverter will begin again immediately we stop sending them
    Low Voltage alarms cause the inverter to stop discharging. The inverter will begin again immediately we stop sending them
      Note: Neither fault light nor any indication of trouble shown on inverter display when in Alarm condition
  Protection: No

426x: Untested
  Dummy values used for all fields here. No testing performed to ascertain sensitivity

427x: Untested
  Dummy values used for all fields here. No testing performed to ascertain sensitivity

428x: No

Future experiments
* second level BMS Temperature
* charging current behaviour when SOC below/near low limit
* SOH: Untested 
* Which voltages need to be within which parameters for inverter to begin battery operations?
* Basic status other values
* How long after losing CAN traffic does it shutdown?
* How does the inverter behave when internal measured battery voltage is significantly below DischargeCutoffVolt value?

